---
title: "Shaping Elements with Border Radius"
lastUpdated: 2023-12-26
description: "Use border radius to create responsive and resizable shapes"
banner:
    {
        content: "/assets/lessons/elements-and-layout/border-radius-shapes/banner.png"
    }
category: "Elements and Layout"
readTime: "1 min"
---

Shaping elements with border radius is a very useful tool for rounded corners and other custom shapes. With WebbsAI's basic input fields, you can create a variety of different shapes that make your website look more vibrant.

### Basic Usage

At Styles > Borders, you can manipulate either all corners or only individual corners based on your requirement.
With Style, Width, and Color, you can decide how your border looks on your website.

### Individual Corner Radius

You can specify individual radii for each corner by selecting Radius > Individual Corners.

This creates a custom shape where each corner has a different radius.

### Rounded Rectangles

By default, any container is always a rectangle or a square.
A rounded triangle can be made by setting the Radius property to any value greater than 0 px. As you increase the Radius, the element becomes more rounded.

### Ellipses and Circles

Through percentages, you can create ellipses or circles.

By setting the Radius property to 50%, you can create an ellipse for your element.

A circle is just an ellipse with an equal width and height.

### Pills and Capsules

The pill or capsule shape has a radius that is equivalent to half the height or width value of the element in pixels. Higher values will have no impact on the shape.

### Complex Shapes

You can also combine different radius values to create more complex shapes. This helps make shapes like speech bubbles or arrows.
